>> Will Sentance: Braydon,
go ahead Braydon.
>> Speaker 2: So if we're trying to use
the data storing data from the network
request, how does it if you have a line
of code in the JavaScript, in the global.
How does it know when it
can kinda access that?
>> Will Sentance: Behind
the scenes in reality,
this high value is never
filled in actually.
Until all global codes finish running, so
we can't even get access to it at that
point until we have,
we only get access to it from the front.
And then that way, I mean that different
from the callback model, right?
You only get access to from
the function that we add,
we also triggered because we just
don't want to have a language.
Where we can go and
try and get access to stuff and we don't
know if it's gonna be there or not.
So we don't actually fill that in
behind the scenes automatically,
until all global codes finish running.
Okay, in practice that
has a small consequence.
But it's slightly different to the way I
sort of showed you here where we sort of
imply it gets filled in
here at that moment.
But in reality it's at
the very last minute,
before we start going through the queues.
That has no consequences in terms of.
We don't run these functions
until it's filled in,
until we finish all the global
code anyway so no consequences.
Mark?
>> Speaker 2: I'm trying to think
of how to phrase this properly.
>> Will Sentance: Do you
want to take one sec?
>> Speaker 2: I can try.
If it's a print hello when the browser has
it, is a reference to global print hello.
Is not print hello itself.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, we're not
taking into the web browser a copy of
the function.
We're just giving a reference back
to in memory, this function, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Could print hello, take
into consideration by the time you hit
the cost text something another
parameter from global memory?
Or is it must have been can.
>> Will Sentance: It will
be hard to do so, because.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Will Sentance: Hold on,
who's putting the parenths on print?
Hello, are we doing it, yeah.
Are we putting prints on print?
Hello?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Will Sentance: No JavaScript's
doing it.
If we're not putting brands on
how do we insert any arguments?
We have to rely on knowing.
And this is a really good point,
the most making here.
It means we have to know like,
for example,
you might answer a different way mark,
hold on.
Could I have two arguments passed to me
that's all about display the function that
gets its first input.
Data that comes back as if I could only
be have that expect two arguments.
Now, I've got to go and
look at exactly how the feature of
the web browser that this function is
going to be auto triggered when
the feature web browser finishes work.
How it's expecting how the web browser and
the promise of disease expecting
this function to be laid out.
Where do I go to find
the rules about that?
Where am I gonna find out how
the browser is expecting the function
that will be auto run.
When its work is done is gonna work and
what inputs it's gonna take?
How do I find that out, everybody?
Whether it's a website.
>> Speaker 2: MDN.
>> Will Sentance: Shutting
the MDN, exactly.
MDN has got a list of all these features.
They don't call these facade functions.
They call them API is a it stands for
interface that is any functionality or
often data that's not in my world, but
in someone else's and I interface with it.
These are my labels by which
I can interface interact with
this outside world.
That being said slightly related to
what you're saying, Mark, though,
is suppose I set timeout call inside
the execution and other function.
And it wanted to use some of the data
from that execution context.
Well, by the time print hello runs,
it runs in global,
that execution context in which
set timeout with set up has gone,
and all its data's gone, unless the-
>> Speaker 2: Backpack.
>> Will Sentance: Backpack, exactly, print
hello has a link to all its surrounding
memory that could ever be used in it,
pretty awesome, that's pretty amazing.
Okay, we had another one,
yeah, Jason, please?
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH] Excuse me, so the
example at least gives us the impression
that the micro-task queue
is either first in,
last out, where it's used preferentially-
>> Will Sentance: Good question.
>> Speaker 2: Where you've got depending
on the type of call you're gonna get
a queue.
My suspicion is the micro-task is
actually has its own invent loop
>> Will Sentance: Because well no,
the event needs handling.
Let's talk a bit about how the micro
task queue words relates to what Jason's
asking them.
What if isn't really interesting?
So it turns out with promise objects,
I can just create one directly.
I don't need to have it
automatically created by fetch,
I can actually just say create one.
If I then say resolve that, that is to
say in that line of code in that moment.
Have it automatically complete and
have its function at that I
can control that function.
We can do that with fetch.
Because fetch is handling
the relationship here, but
if I make my own promise object, then I
can have the function attached to it.
I can directly myself have it stuck
into the microtask queue by having
the value property of that promise
object updated and complete.
And automatically trigger the function
to run in the microtask queue.
Here's a really interesting scenario.
If when I'm running the function
that was in my microtask
queue that was displayed,
If inside of there.
I create a brand new promise object
that its associated function
while I was inside display.
That promise object completed
because I told it to directly,
the associated function will be stuck into
the backend of microtask queue while I'm
still inside display.
>> Will Sentance: Here's a really
interesting situation
that can happen then.
I can be filling in the back of
the micro task queue with more
functions while I'm still inside display.
And the event loop is interesting and
how it interacts with the micro task
queue is a very, very big bonus sort of.
If you go to if you want to know the node
hard parts, we go into some more detail.
They're worried too much about this.
But I am feeling if I want
I'm inside display and
filling in new functions behind here.
And they themselves
are building a new functions.
And then those are pretty new
function almost recursively.
I will never leave the microdose
queue because the event loop
will always take in and
execute on the call stack.
It will always go back and
check the microtask before it
moves on to the callback queue.
That is in distinction to the callback
queue which once it enters does all
the stuff in there and
then moves round again.
The microtask queue once it enters,
if you are refilling in the back,
you ain't leaving it.
You get what's called starve
the callback queue and in Node.
This is particularly important because you
want to, you know, production application.
And this is why there's some
caution around around using
the process next tick method.
Which sticks stuff in this queue, and
can recursively starve you handling
your requests from your users.
Valence I topic, but go watch the Node
Harper's, you're interested in that, but
it's an interesting nature that these
are behaving slightly differently.
Just as Jason was hinting,
there was one more Brayden, was it or
was it Peter or Kayla?
Dan, it was Dan, yeah, go ahead, Dan.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah when you may
have already mentioned this, but.
What items go into the microtask queue and
what items go into.
>> Will Sentance: Great, great point.
Let's just be really, really clear.
Any function that is attached to a promise
object by one of these two prongs for
stored functions.
Which gives add a promise object we
attach a function to it using them.
Those functions all go
into the micro-task you.
Any function that's passed in directly
to a facade function that triggers a web
browser feature you see the reference
that link to the function down here.
Those functions when they complete or
sorry when the background task the timer
completes this function callback.
So we have to go into MDN and
see, does our particular facade function
that trigger stuff in the background?
Does it take in a function?
That one's going to go
into the callback queue?
Or does it return out to
promed a promise object and
they toss to the background but
doesn't throw a function down here.
The associative function on the promise
object, that- microtask queue.
Okay, sweet.